.\" Man page for e2-build-numbers
.\"
.\" (c)2007 emlix GmbH
.\"
.TH e2-build-numbers 1 "Jun 17, 2008" "0.1"

.SH NAME
e2-build-numbers \- updates build-numbers for one, multiple or all results

.SH SYNOPSIS
e2-build-numbers [OPTION | RESULT ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool allows creating and maintaining a monotonically increasing
build-number for each result. The build-numbers, together with the
build-id is stored in the local project-file "proj/build-numbers".
The build-number can be manually increased or synchronized with
a central server. Build-numbers always strictly increase with each
change. After synchronization, an environment file with suitable 
variable definitions is generated in "proj/build-numbers.env". This
file can be included in "proj/env" with the following command:

.nf
  env "proj/build-numbers.env"
.fi

This tool implicitly operates in "tag" mode, that is, it computes
the results fingerprint with sources specified in the "tag" field
of the source configuration, if the source refers to version-controlled
files.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Normally, exit status is 0. On error, it is non-zero.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-sync
Do not synchronize with the server, just update local build-number file.
.TP
.BR 
.BR \-\-prefix=PREFIX
Add a user-defined prefix before the local build-numbers.
.TP
.BR \-\-force
Force increasing the build number for the results given on the
command line, or all, if no results have been specified.
.TP
.BR \-\-dry\-run
Do not change any files.
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Show usage information.

.P
For further global options, see \fBe2intro\fR(7).

.SH BUGS
Doubtless there are many.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR e2intro (7),
.BR e2-build (1).

.SH AUTHORS
Gordon Hecker, Oskar Schirmer and Felix Winkelmann

.SH COPYRIGHT
(c)2007 emlix GmbH
