.\" Man page for e2-build
.\"
.\" (c)2007, 2008 emlix GmbH
.\"
.TH e2-build 1 "Dec 1, 2008" "2.2"

.SH NAME
e2-build \- build results from repository or local sources

.SH SYNOPSIS
e2-build [OPTION|RESULT ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBe2-build\fR builds one or more results,
dependencies are taken into account.
Depending on the intended outcome, different versions of the source
files to use may be retrieved for the build process.
See \fBe2config\fR for a description of the source config file format.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Normally, exit status is 0. On error, it is non-zero.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-build-mode=MODE
results can be built according to different build modes, as defined by the
(currently builtin) policy module.
A build mode sets the class of sources to take, and influences the buildid,
the dependencies used and the place to store results.
.TP
.BR \-\-branch-mode
build selected results in 'branch' build-mode.
.TP
.BR \-\-wc-mode
build selected results in 'working-copy' build-mode.
.TP
.BR \-\-all
Possibly build all results listed in the dependencies.
This is the default when building from repository sources.
.TP
.BR \-\-playground
Prepare build environment but do not start the build script. The build
environment can later be entered using the \fBe2-playground\fR tool.
.TP
.BR \-\-keep
Do not remove the \fBchroot\fR(1) environment after a build (regardless
of whether it is successful or not).
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Show usage information.

.P
Valid build modes according to the builtin policy are 
\fBworking-copy\fR, \fBtag\fR, \fBrelease\fR and \fBbranch\fR.
\fBtag\fR is the default build mode. \fBrelease\fR is exactly the same
as \fBtag\fR but the results will be stored in a special location on the
server side. (To be archived, separated from lots of results built
for testing.)

.P
To use the branch from the scm source configuration for selected results
build in 'tag' mode, and select the results to build in branch-mode.

.SH Examples:
build selected results from their source branches. Dependencies not selected
on the command line are built in the default build-mode.
.IP
e2-build --branch-mode <result> ...
.PP
build a release
.IP
e2-build --build-mode=release
.PP
build
.IP
e2-build
.PP

For further global options, see \fBe2intro\fR(7).

.SH BUGS
Doubtless there are many.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR e2intro (7),
.BR e2-ls-project (1),
.BR e2-playground (1),
.BR e2config (5),
.BR e2-sync-results (1),
.BR e2-runbuild (1).

.SH AUTHORS
Gordon Hecker, Oskar Schirmer and Felix Winkelmann

.SH COPYRIGHT
(c)2007, 2008 emlix GmbH
