.\" General man page for e2
.\"
.\" (c)2007 emlix GmbH
.\"
.TH e2intro 7 "Aug 3, 2007" "0.1"

.SH NAME
e2 \- a system for automated and reproducible builds

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBe2\fR is a system for building software from sources in a chroot(1)
environment. The results of a build are fully reproducible and care is
taken to avoid re-builds unless they would influence the outcome.
Dependencies among build components are tracked and automatically
handled by e2.

.SH TERMINOLOGY

.TP
.BR result
Designates something that is the product of executing a "build-script"
with a given set of input "sources". Usually a set of binaries or a
root file system.

.TP
.BR source
Something that is the input to a build process. Usually this means a set
of source files.
.TP
.BR project
A "project" is a collection of sources, results and a description of their
interdependencies. When the documentation refers to a \fBcurrent\fR
project, then the project tree in which a particular e2 command is
executed is meant.
.TP
.BR mode
A mode in which a result is built, either "tag", "head" or "working-copy".
.TP
.BR backing store
One or more locations that are used to store sources and build results,
usually shared by several developers.

.SH TOOLS
e2 is used from the command line and provides the following tools to
configure a project and run the build process:

.SH GLOBAL TOOLS
.TP
.BR e2
Call local tools.
.TP
.BR e2-create-project
Create a new project in the backing store.
.TP
.BR e2-fetch-project
Retrieves a project from the backing store.
.TP
.BR e2-install-e2
Install the local e2 tools into a project environment.
.TP
.BR e2-su-*
Provide root privileges for some actions.

.SH LOCAL TOOLS
.TP
.BR e2-build
Depending on options, builds a particular result or all,
either using the state of the sources as stored in the
current working copy, or the appropriate revision from the
corresponding repository, when the source is located in a version controlled
repository.
.TP
.BR e2-dlist
Shows a sorted list of the dependencies for a given result.
.TP 
.BR e2-dsort
Shows the sorted list of results in the order in which they must be built
to satisfy interdependencies among each result.
.TP
.BR e2-fetch-sources
Retrieves the sources for the current project from the backing store.
.TP
.BR e2-ls-project
Displays a schematic view of the current project and shows the project build status.
.TP
.BR e2-use-source
Add a source to the current project.
.TP
.BR e2-new-source
Create a new source in the backing store.
.TP
.BR e2-playground
Enter chroot environment previously created via
\fBe2-build\ \-\-playground\fR.

.TP
All tools support the following common set of options:

.TP
.BR \-\-help
Show usage information.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Show e2 version number and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-quiet
Disable all output to console.
.TP
.BR \-\-verbose
Show information about what the tool is currently doing.
.TP
.BR \-\-debug
Show complete debug information giving as much output as possible,
as long as it concerns the current project.
.TP
.BR \-\-tooldebug
Show complete debug information, including tool internal information.
.TP
.BR \-\-e2\-config
Specify a e2 config file

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.BR E2_CONFIG
use a custom e2 config file
.TP
.BR E2_SSH
specify a tool to use instead of \fBssh\fR(1).
.TP
.BR E2_SSH_OPTIONS
set ssh options when using the \fBe2ssh\fR(1) \fBssh\fR wrapper.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR e2workflow(7)
.BR e2-build(1)
.BR e2-cf(1)
.BR e2-dlist(1)
.BR e2-dsort(1)
.BR e2-fetch-sources(1)
.BR e2-ls-project(1)
.BR e2-use-source(1)
.BR e2-fetch-project(1)
.BR e2-new-source(1)
.BR e2-create-project(1)
.BR e2config(5)
.BR e2-sync-results(1)
.BR e2global(1)
.BR e2-install-e2(1)
.BR e2ssh(1)

.SH AUTHORS
Gordon Hecker, Oskar Schirmer and Felix Winkelmann

.SH COPYRIGHT
(c)2007 emlix GmbH
